GROWING BELL PEPPERS
Botanical Name	Capsicum annuum
Plant Type	Vegetable
Sun Exposure	Full Sun
Soil Type	Loamy
Soil pH	Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Bloom Time	Summer
Flower Color	White
Hardiness Zones	4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11

WHEN TO PLANT PEPPERS
If you’re sowing peppers indoors, wtart them off early in spring to give them more time to crop throughout the summer!
 Start seeds indoors 8 to 10 weeks before your last spring frost date. Germination is quickest at 77 to 90 Fahrenheit. 
If you’re planning to plant peppers outide, this should be done 2 to 3 weeks after the threat of frost has passed in the spring.
To achieve these sorts of temperatures you’ll need a heated propagator or heat mat. You can start seeds off at lower room
 temperatures but expect germination to be slower and potentially erratic. Ideal conditions should see seedlings appear within about two weeks,
 but some varieties take as long as five, so don’t give up on them too soon!
If growing from nursery-bought transplants, plant them outdoors 2 to 3 weeks after the threat of frost has passed. 
Be sure to harden young plants off prior to planting outdoors, as peppers are very sensitive to cool temperatures.

START PEPPERS INDOOORS
Choose a potting mix that easily drains through after each watering. 
A quality, free-draining potting mix can be opened up a bit more by just mixing in some perlite like this. 
If your peppers are destined to go outside for the summer consider using a soil-based potting mix, 
which will add extra weight so that containers don’t topple over in the wind. 
The soil temperature should be at least 70°F (21°C) for optimal seed germination, so keep them in a warm area for the best and fastest results. 
Use a heat pad under the seed tray, if necessary.
Plant seeds about ¼-inch deep (or refer to the seed packet).
Separate seedlings out and move them into their own pots before they become drawn and leggy.
 If seedlings do get a bit too tall, replant them up to their lowest leaves, just like tomatoes, to help support them.
 Keep seedlings warm until you’re ready to plant.
Peppers need plenty of light to encourage healthy, stocky plants that will be less prone to growing top-heavy and flopping over,
 so grow them on somewhere that is both warm and bright – a greenhouse or conservatory, or the sunniest windowsill you can muster until
 it’s time to move them outside.
Pot young plants on as the roots fill their pots. Transplanted seedlings begin at a pot size of around 3 inches, but it won’t take long for them to outgrow this. Once plants have around five to eight leaves and you can see roots at the drainage holes, it’s time to move them up a pot size – something like a 5-inch pot. Then once they’ve filled this, pot them on again, this time into a pot of about 8 inches. The final container size for most pepper plants is around 9 to 12 inches. Potting on in stages like this ensures plants aren’t ‘lost’ in containers significantly larger than their root balls. It also means less wasted potting mix should plants fail at a stage of growth. 
You can keep the peppers in pots or transplant them outside into the garden.


PREPARING THE OUTDOOR PLANTING SITE
Pepper plants require full sun to produce the largest and healthiest fruit, so pick a site that won’t get shaded out by trees or other garden plants.
Soil should be well-draining and rich in organic matter. Peppers don’t like to have “wet feet,” so avoid planting them 
in locations that get too wet.
A soil consistency somewhere between sandy and loamy will ensure that the soil drains well and warms quickly. 
Soil pH should be on the slightly acidic side—6.0 to 7.0, ideally.
A week before transplanting peppers into the garden, introduce fertilizer or aged compost into your garden soil. 
Alternatively, mix in a slow-release fertilizer.
Avoid planting peppers in places where you’ve recently grown other members of the nightshade family—such as tomatoes, potatoes,
 or eggplants—as this can expose peppers to disease.

PLANTING PEPPERS OUTDOORS
Begin to harden off plants about 10 days before transplanting outdoors, which should be done
The soil temperature should be at least 60°F (16°C) at the time of planting (though warmer is better), 
as peppers are very sensitive to cool temperatures. Speed up the warming of the soil by covering it with black 
plastic or a dark mulch about a week before you intend to plant.
When you transplant seedlings outdoors, space them 18 to 24 inches apart.
Plant the transplants no deeper than they were already planted in their pots; otherwise, the stems may become more susceptible to rot.


What’s the best way to boost the productivity of your pepper plants? See our guide to growing and harvesting strong, healthy plants that will produce peppers to be proud of!
Sweet bell peppers are a tender, warm-season crop with a long growing season (60 to 90 days).
Many gardeners need to start peppers indoors to give them a head start! However, if you don’t have the means to sow peppers or have simply run out of time, remember you can find a fantastic range of ready-to-go seedlings and young plants online, while some garden centers and nurseries stock plants on the cusp of fruiting. 
Peppers resist most garden pests and offer something for everyone: spicy, sweet, or hot; and a variety of colors, shapes, and sizes. On this page, we focus on growing sweet bell peppers but much of the advice for growing peppers is the same.  
We also have a growing guide for jalapeño peppers for those who like it spicy! (Bell peppers do not contain capsaicin, which is the compound that gives hot peppers such as heir pungency and heat.)



 
PLANTING DATES FOR SPRING
On average, your last spring frost occurs on May 15 (at JAFFREY MUNI AP, NH climate station).
 Based on Frost Dates    Based on Moon Dates
Start Seeds Indoors	Plant Seedlings
or Transplants	Start Seeds Outdoors
 Mar 5-20
 Mar 5-18	 May 22-Jun 5
 May 30-Jun 5	N/A
PLANTING CALENDAR FOR ALL PLANTS

PLANTING
WHEN TO PLANT PEPPERS
If you’re sowing peppers indoors, wtart them off early in spring to give them more time to crop throughout the summer! Start seeds indoors 8 to 10 weeks before your last spring frost date. Germination is quickest at 77 to 90 Fahrenheit. If you’re planning to plant peppers outide, this should be done 2 to 3 weeks after the threat of frost has passed in the spring.
To achieve these sorts of temperatures you’ll need a heated propagator or heat mat. You can start seeds off at lower room temperatures but expect germination to be slower and potentially erratic. Ideal conditions should see seedlings appear within about two weeks, but some varieties take as long as five, so don’t give up on them too soon!
If growing from nursery-bought transplants, plant them outdoors 2 to 3 weeks after the threat of frost has passed. Be sure to harden young plants off prior to planting outdoors, as peppers are very sensitive to cool temperatures.
Spacing for Peppers

START PEPPERS INDOOORS
Choose a potting mix that easily drains through after each watering. A quality, free-draining potting mix can be opened up a bit more by just mixing in some perlite like this. If your peppers are destined to go outside for the summer consider using a soil-based potting mix, which will add extra weight so that containers don’t topple over in the wind. 
The soil temperature should be at least 70°F (21°C) for optimal seed germination, so keep them in a warm area for the best and fastest results. Use a heat pad under the seed tray, if necessary.
Plant seeds about ¼-inch deep (or refer to the seed packet).
Separate seedlings out and move them into their own pots before they become drawn and leggy. If seedlings do get a bit too tall, replant them up to their lowest leaves, just like tomatoes, to help support them. Keep seedlings warm until you’re ready to plant.
Peppers need plenty of light to encourage healthy, stocky plants that will be less prone to growing top-heavy and flopping over, so grow them on somewhere that is both warm and bright – a greenhouse or conservatory, or the sunniest windowsill you can muster until it’s time to move them outside.
Pot young plants on as the roots fill their pots. Transplanted seedlings begin at a pot size of around 3 inches, but it won’t take long for them to outgrow this. Once plants have around five to eight leaves and you can see roots at the drainage holes, it’s time to move them up a pot size – something like a 5-inch pot. Then once they’ve filled this, pot them on again, this time into a pot of about 8 inches. The final container size for most pepper plants is around 9 to 12 inches. Potting on in stages like this ensures plants aren’t ‘lost’ in containers significantly larger than their root balls. It also means less wasted potting mix should plants fail at a stage of growth. 
You can keep the peppers in pots or transplant them outside into the garden.

PREPARING THE OUTDOOR PLANTING SITE
Pepper plants require full sun to produce the largest and healthiest fruit, so pick a site that won’t get shaded out by trees or other garden plants.
Soil should be well-draining and rich in organic matter. Peppers don’t like to have “wet feet,” so avoid planting them in locations that get too wet.
A soil consistency somewhere between sandy and loamy will ensure that the soil drains well and warms quickly. 
Soil pH should be on the slightly acidic side—6.0 to 7.0, ideally.
A week before transplanting peppers into the garden, introduce fertilizer or aged compost into your garden soil. Alternatively, mix in a slow-release fertilizer.
Avoid planting peppers in places where you’ve recently grown other members of the nightshade family—such as tomatoes, potatoes, or eggplants—as this can expose peppers to disease.

PLANTING PEPPERS OUTDOORS
Begin to harden off plants about 10 days before transplanting outdoors, which should be done
The soil temperature should be at least 60°F (16°C) at the time of planting (though warmer is better), as peppers are very sensitive to cool temperatures. Speed up the warming of the soil by covering it with black plastic or a dark mulch about a week before you intend to plant.
When you transplant seedlings outdoors, space them 18 to 24 inches apart.
Plant the transplants no deeper than they were already planted in their pots; otherwise, the stems may become more susceptible to rot.
Check out this video to learn how to plant bell peppers:



CARE
WATERING PEPPERS
Peppers should never be allowed to struggle and soil moisture is especially important in this regard. 
Peppers like a good dousing but should be left to almost dry out between waterings – they need that period of relative dry.
 Once a week is typical. If the leaves have gone a bit limp, you’ve probably left it a little too long, but a thorough watering should sort things out.
If you’re growing in pots you can gauge whether the potting mix is dry enough by
 lifting the container to check its weight – it should be noticeably lighter, by pushing a finger into the soil to feel for moisture about an inch down.
If you live in a warm or desert climate, or are simply experiencing a hot, dry summer, watering everyday may be necessary. 
Peppers are susceptible to blossom-end rot if watering is not adequate. 

FERTILIZING PEPPERS
Peppers will need regular feeding using a liquid feed that’s high 
in potassium to promote flower production and fruit set – a tomato fertilizer works well.
A liquid seaweed with a good range of trace minerals works well, too. A lack of these minerals, together with over watering, 
is a common cause of yellowing leaves.
After the first fruit set, fertilize with a low-nitrogen fertilizer. (Too much nitrogen can cause the plant to produce foliage instead of flowers and fruit!)

MORE PLANT CARE TIPS
Weed carefully around plants to avoid disturbing roots.
If necessary, support plants with cages or stakes to prevent bending. Try commercially available cone-shaped wire tomato cages. 
They may not be ideal for tomatoes, but they are just the thing for peppers. Or, build your own garden supports.
In cooler, temperate climates or it gets windy where you live, consider growing your peppers under some form of protection. 
Peppers love this extra warmth. However, if it gets very hot, this can cause flowers to abort and drop, so move plants back outside 
when temperatures soar.




